# ZIdentity 

## SAML, SCIM, and OIDC

### SAML 
SAML is an open federation standard used to organize users’ security and identity information and to distribute this information across the organization’s boundaries. SAML components comprises Identity Provider (IdP), Service Provider (SP), and SAML Assertion.

- Service provider (SP) is a system that receives identity credentials of users from an identity provider, and provides users access to online resources. Salesforce, ServiceNow, etc. are common service providers. Zscaler is also an example of an SP that makes sure you can safely access online services.
- Identity Provider (IdP) is a system that authenticates users’ identities and authorizes their access to various applications and services by managing and verifying credentials. Microsoft Entra ID, Okta, PingOne, OneLogin etc. are common examples of identity providers.

### SCIM 
SCIM (System for Cross-domain Identity Management) is a standardized method for managing user identities across different systems, ensuring consistent and up-to-date information.

SCIM works by allowing IT departments to provision user accounts for new hires across various systems, such as email providers, CRM systems, and identity providers for SSO capabilities. When a new employee is added to the company's primary directory, SCIM automatically communicates with all connected systems (office 365, Salesforce, SSO provider) to create corresponding user accounts.

### OIDC

OpenID Connect is an authentication protocol based on the OAuth 2.0 framework, which provides single sign on. It allows to verify a user's identity and obtain their profile information. OIDC does not store passwords, which can help prevent credential-based data breaches.

OAuth 2.0 is an authorization framework that allows users to share their data with third-party applications without having to share their credentials. It's the industry standard for authorization across many tech companies, social media applications, and finance applications.

## Key Features and Benefits

- Seamless access to all the subscribed Zscaler services with a single set of credentials
- Secured authentication of users using MFA
- Easy management and control of admin roles and access to Zscaler services
- Easy creation and management of user accounts in the ZIdentity admin portal
- Automatic synchronization of users with identity providers through SAML just-in-time (JIT) provisioning or SCIM provisioning
- Limited administrator access based on source IP address to ensure that admins access the system from authorized locations
- Quick access to audit reports evaluating configuration changes in ZIdentity

### Adding User Groups
Group is a logical entity that includes several users. Creating user groups enables you to:

- Assign multiple users to the Zscaler services quickly.
- Categorize users for various services.
- Assign administrative entitlements, service entitlements, and admin roles to a group.

A user can be part of up to 1,000 groups. There are limits on the respective services to support this 1,000 group assignment per user. For example, if you assign a user to 500 groups, but you have a ZIA subscription for only 128 groups per user, then only the first 128 group assignment for the user is considered on the ZIA service.

### Adding User Attributes

The ZIdentity admin portal has system-defined user attributes. User attributes enable you to:

- Use the attributes in Zscaler services (e.g., Zscaler Internet Access (ZIA), Zscaler Private Access (ZPA)) to control access to internet or private applications.
- Use the attributes for SSO.
- ZIdentity provides support session attributes. ZIdentity records attributes related to the user’s session and makes them available to the Zscaler service, like Zscaler Private Access (ZPA). ZPA can define policies to enforce access based on session context. The ZIdentity admins can add and manage the session attributes.

### Entitlement
- Entitlements refer to the type of access privileges and permissions that are assigned to ZIdentity users. Service entitlements are assigned to users who don’t need to perform any administrative tasks.
- Administrative entitlements are assigned to users who need to perform administrative tasks; such as, adding new Admins.

## Policies and Audit Logs
Sign-on policies enable you to:

- Configure policies to control users who can access Zscaler service's admin portal.
- Enforce condition-based access control for administrators, such as, location and location groups.
- 
The Admin Sign-On Policy page displays all the sign-on rules configured for the users to allow or deny a user from accessing the Zscaler service.

The sign-on policy is not applicable to the super admin (admin@<vanityurl>.zslogin.net(opens in a new tab)). Super admin is the primary user account that was created when onboarding your tenant.

### Audit Logs
Audit logs are records of activities performed by users in the ZIdentity admin portal. The activities include configuration changes, user management (e.g., creating, updating, deleting users), tenant management, changing authentication settings, service assignments, etc.

Audit logs enable you to:

- View details on all the changes (for example, time, user, actions,  results, client IP etc.) made by an administrator during a login session.
- Monitor the changes made by an administrator to policies or configurations via the ZIdentity admin portal or APIs.

Audit logs are maintained for 6 months and can be downloaded in the .csv format.
